Temporarily activating/deactivating one or more contacts will allow you to send a message to a subgroup of addresses in the list. By combining this feature and the sorting/grouping functionalities you will be able to create powerful filtering to be applied to mailing processes.\r\rTo quickly create filters, first disable all addresses, then group them and finally enable only the ones you are interested in.
One of the most advanced features in SendBlaster is multiple grouping; don't miss this unique feature, try experimenting: drag multiple column headers in the area above the list and see what happens.
You never have to worry about duplicates: SendBlaster deals with them automatically. If the same address is encountered more than once in a mailing, only one message is delivered to that e-mail address - duplicates are automatically filtered out when sending.
If you collect full data from your users, and not only their e-mail addresses, use merge tags for sending out personalized messages: "Dear John" sounds much better than a generic "Dear user". You don't need to enable or configure anything, just select a tag from the list in "Compose message" form and it will be inserted in the current typing position.
Built-in "Preview" feature uses your default e-mail client. If you need more flexibility, create a "test" list containing some of your own e-mail addresses (fill in some other fields too), and send your mailing to your test list before actually sending it out to your contacts. This way you'll be able to preview your message on different e-mail clients, including online services if you include your gmail / hotmail (or similar) address, see how merging worked, etc.
You can periodically purge your lists by downloading and automatically processing bounces.\r\rThe addresses that originated the bounces will be deleted from the list, making next mailings faster, as no time will be wasted for bad addresses.
You are not bound to using our e-mail templates only; any .htm or .eml file can easily become a custom template in two simple steps: first import it then save it as a new template.
Don't think at templates as graphic layouts only: if you composed a text that you will need to reuse in the future, save it as a new template. This way, next time you will not have to type it again from scratch.
You can import your contacts from any source capable of exporting data as a formatted text files.\rFormatted text (also known as .csv, "comma separated values") is a very popular format for sharing data between different programs.\r\rAs an example, you can export your contacts from Outlook or from an Excel file, then import them into SendBlaster.
The simplest way to add a subscription link to your web site is adding a link to the e-mail address(es) you use for managing lists, with "Subscribe" as its subject. This doesn't even require any server-side code on your web site.\rIf your web site supports PHP or ASP you can add a full-blown subscription form, collecting all your users' data; you can download free example forms and scripts from our web site.
It is better to use a dedicated e-mail address for managing lists (i.e. "subscriptions@mysite.com"), instead of the same address you are sending from (i.e. "news@mysite.com"): this way, your users' responses will not mix with subscriptions and removals, allowing you to process them faster.
If you configure SendBlaster to download subscriptions from the same e-mail address you also use on other e-mail clients, always enable "Keep a copy of the messages on the servers" checkbox in "Manage subscriptions" and "Manage bounce-backs" forms.\rThis way you will be able to download messages on your e-mail client too.
Past mailings are recorded in "History" section; you can reuse a previously sent message, even if it was not saved, just selecting "Open / Open e-mail from History" in "Compose message" form.
Instead of adding an attachment to your message, upload the file to your web site, then insert a link to that file in your message: delivery will be much faster and your recipients will be happier as your message will be smaller.
In order to improve your delivery rate, avoid adding images to your message: modern antispam filters become suspicious when they encounter a message containing a lot of graphics, and may redirect it to your recipient's junk folder or even delete it before it makes it to the mailbox.
Different e-mail clients render HTML in a different way; try avoiding complex formatting for your messages: keep them simple so that they will be readable on most platforms (and their layout will be consistent, if not equal, on most e-mail clients).
In order to improve your delivery rate and avoid false positives from antispam filters, always insert a "plain text" part in your message; SendBlaster can automatically generate a plain text part from HTML when you click on "Text from HTML" button. This should be the last operation you perform before sending out a mailing.
When you are sending out a newsletter, always insert a removal link at the end of the message: just add a link to the e-mail address you use for managing your list with "Unsubscribe" as subject. If you are not familiar with links, please have a look at the manual for some examples.
SendBlaster sends out each message as a separate e-mail, it does not use "Cc" or "Bcc": recipients cannot see the other e-mail addresses the message has been sent to, nor receive generically addressed messages.
If you need to use a particular character set (different from the default one), please select it before you start composing your message: "charset" selection should be the first operation to be performed, so that the characters you type are correctly rendered in the preview window.
If you want to send out a text only message, with no HTML part, create a new message from scratch and edit the "Plain text" part only, leaving the visual editor's area empty: SendBlaster will automatically recognize that HTML contains a blank page and send out text only e-mails.\r\rBefore sending out, always preview your message in order to make sure that you did not enter anything in the HTML part by mistake.
SendBlaster's speed greatly depends on your Internet connection and SMTP server performance: if you are unsure about how fast messages can be sent, start with slower settings (select a slow profile in "Send" form), then gradually increase speed (choose a faster profile or lower pauses and increase connections).
Instead of using SMTP or Direct Send only, try using a mix of the two methods: choose SMTP as your primary sending method and enable "Retry with direct send in case of error" checkbox.
In "Send" form, use "Quoted printable" encoding if your messages is mostly text; choose "Base64" only if it contains lots of images or attachments (message size will be smaller, but some antispam filters may not like it).
Contact lists can contain quite a lot of fields, but you may not need all of them: in "Manage lists" form, use "Visible fields" button to hide the fields you don't need.
Completing a message sending operation through the "History" form is a great way to work around SMTP server restrictions that wouldn't otherwise allow sending several messages in a short time span. Start a mailing, then stop it after a while; you will then complete it later - SendBlaster will start sending back from where it was interrupted (no duplicates will be sent).
"Importing" does not only mean adding new contacts to a list; you can do more than that with external data: as an example, if you have a file containing "bad" addresses, you can import the file so that the addresses are removed from your list.
Using blacklists is essential for quickly and securely avoid sending messages to someone or preventing unwanted subscriptions: if an e-mail address or domain has been inserted in your blacklist, it will never be sent any message - no matter what its status is in any list.
SendBlaster allows you to password-protect your database. To remove a password, simply enter the old one in the appropriate field and leave the "New password" and "Confirm new password" fields empty.
Don't forget to visit our web site periodically: you will find updates and free stuff - we are always adding new things so don't miss them!